# HarryPotter_Vs_GameOfThrones_Part_1
### Overview
The goal of this project was to gather two texts and do a comparison 
The goal of this project was to gather two texts and do a comparison of the top 50 most used words and a bigram associated measure score.  The Two texts chosen were both fantasy books, and both first in a series.  One is Harry Potter with the target audience being adolescence and the other is Game of Thrones (book 1) targeted at adults.  Both books were obtained from kaggle.
### Cleaning
Extensive cleaning needed to be done this included removing page numbers, book titles and author names from each page.  There was many typos and errors when the books were brought into the Kaggle database.  This cleaning was accomplished with Regular expressions.
### Vectorization
During vectorization using NLTK vectorizer all uppercase letters, and punctuation removed and the text was stemmed.  
### Bigram association Measures
Top bigrams were examined and found at first to be a majority stop words.  An alpha function was used to remove bigrams containing stop words and then pointwise mutual information.
While there are a lot of character names which is to be expected with a fantasy book.  There is a capturing of completely made-up names of places and objects in the Harry Potter books any fan would be familiar with such as Diagon Alley, Chocolate Frogs, and three-headed dog.  While in the Game of Thrones book it showcases darker terms and an air of medieval times such as two-handed greatsword, flea bottom, and cuts deeper.  
### Results
  As a review the goal is to see difference in the top tokens that would distinguish one fantasy book as being for adults (Game of Thrones) (GoT) and one for children (Harry Potter) (HP).  When looking at the top tokens after normalization we can see names in both, around the same number (13 in HP and 12 in GoT) the other words are telling of the books.  HP simple non descriptive words, (go, could, something) and Professor while GoT has some simple non descriptive words (looked, like) but also sword, king, lord, lady and maester a term from the book (a holy man).     “ …:” was left in as a token because it used 238 times in Harry Potter, this signifies almost overuse possibly because it is designed for children.  We see much more distinctive words from GoT which was intended for adults.  This is most likely caused by a variety of synonyms and a larger overall unique vocabulary.  This can also be seen in the Frequncy distribution from HP being 4557 while in GoT being 7725.  

In the bigrams 11 of the 50 are Harry something. This is Harry felt, Harry asked, Harry looked, etc..  It is telling of the book being all about Harry and his perspective of the world.  While we see in GoT there are a lot more names. There are also more complex world building bigrams like titles (lord commander, grand measter).  HP has places, yet they describe smaller settings such as, common room, great hall, private drive, and one playful “leaky cauldron”. while GoT has many places that are larger in scale, Seven Kingdoms, Casterly Rock, Grey Wind, and Red Keep. This shows the size of the world being created in the text is very different.  The smaller world being created is from the child’s fantasy book while the larger is of the adult fantasy book.

In the Pointwise mutual information, there are a lot of side character names that are always mentioned in full.  Then in HP there is portion of the story telling that is mystical, smelting stick, flavor beans, goal posts, chocolate frogs, forbidden forest, unicorn blood, dark arts.  We see one example that is comical for children but not so funny for adults “fat lady”.  This is a intricate world that has been created but in scales it is smaller.  When we look at the GoT PMI there are many more side characters.  So many that it is at times hard to see that they are proper nouns.  The next big separation between texts breaks through and that is exampled in yi ti, tobho mott, vaes Dothrak, and maz duur.  These seem like misspelling or possibly something went wrong in python coding.  But a small bit of understanding can shed light that this is Dothraki a language created for this series.  The PMI picks these words out because they don’t appear alone.  This sheds light into an aspect of fantasy that isn’t very often found in children’s books.  The writer creates another langue specifically for the book.

Overall, the words presented in top words, bigrams, and the PMI bigrams, point to the size of the fictious world that was created in these texts.  While both are complex and other worldly.  The overall tokens apprehended point to the Game of Thrones world being much larger in scale and shown with the PMI in shear number of characters.  This largeness is more suited for an advanced reader.  The elements particular to the books pointed out by the PMI are fun and very understandable for Harry Potter, while in the Game of Thrones the PMI finds a language that was created for the books and a staggering number of side characters.

The complexity difference in the findings showcases one of the largest differences in fantasy books written for adults vs children, the shear size of the worlds being created.
